README.md, before:

# osmltools
a small set of tools, working with the data of the openseamap data logger.

mostly written in go, this small tool is for working with the data files from the [open sea map logger](https://wiki.openseamap.org/wiki/OpenSeaMap-dev:HW-logger/OSeaM)

(https://github.com/willie68/OpenSeaMapLogger)

# Install
This is a typically copy/run program. Simply unzip into a folder and you can use it. For easier use, you should save the program to a path that is already entered in the system path, or you can enter the extraction path there.

## Update

If you want to update your version, just download the latest version from my GitHub repository and unzip it into the previous folder.

# Usage

## Check

This will check all files in the sd card folder and write the cleaned files to the output folder. Different errors and warnings will be reported.
Syntax: 
`osml check -s <sd card folder> -o <output folder> [-v] [-w] [-r <report name>]`

-s: folder with the files of the sd card
-o: output folder, where all processed files will be stored
-w: the tool will overwrite existing files
-v: verbose will add more logging output.
-r: the tool will generate a json output file named `report.json` with some additional data

### Processing
First all files of the sd card folder will be parsed, filtered and written to the output folder. Naming of the new files will be
`<vessel id>-<number of file>-<creation date (first GPRMC sentence. in file)>.dat`
After that the tool try to set the creation and change date of the file to the first date found in the nmea sentences. Based on this, all sentences are than added a correct timestamp. Than , if requested, `osml` will generate the report.

## Export

This command will first check all files on sd card (like check but without outputting the intermediate files) and will than generate track files for every track in the desired format.

Syntax

`osml export -s <sd card folder> -o <output folder> [-v] [-f]`

-d: folder with the files of the sd card
-o: output folder, where all processed files will be stored
-f: the output format, available formats: Defaults to NMEA, also available: GPX, KML(not implemented yet)
-v: verbose will add more logging output.

### Processing

see check, after all sentences are collected, tracks are builded (based on the corrected timestamp) and every track is written to a file named `track_<tracknumber>.<format>`

Commit message:

Adds support for KMZ export format
Extends the export functionality to include KMZ, a compressed KML format, enhancing the tool's versatility.

The implementation involves creating a new `kmz` package, modifying the KML exporter to support compression,
and updating the command-line flags and supported formats to include KMZ.

This allows users to export track data in a smaller, more manageable file size.
fixed #9

README.md, after:

# osmltools
a small set of tools, working with the data of the openseamap data logger.

mostly written in go, this small tool is for working with the data files from the [open sea map logger](https://wiki.openseamap.org/wiki/OpenSeaMap-dev:HW-logger/OSeaM)

(https://github.com/willie68/OpenSeaMapLogger)

# Install
This is a typically copy/run program. Simply unzip into a folder and you can use it. For easier use, you should save the program to a path that is already entered in the system path, or you can enter the extraction path there.

## Update

If you want to update your version, just download the latest version from my GitHub repository and unzip it into the previous folder.

# Usage

## Check

This will check all files in the sd card folder and write the cleaned files to the output folder. Different errors and warnings will be reported.
Syntax: 
`osml check -s <sd card folder> -o <output folder> [-v] [-w] [-r <report name>]`

-s: folder with the files of the sd card
-o: output folder, where all processed files will be stored
-w: the tool will overwrite existing files
-v: verbose will add more logging output.
-r: the tool will generate a json output file named `report.json` with some additional data

### Processing
First all files of the sd card folder will be parsed, filtered and written to the output folder. Naming of the new files will be
`<vessel id>-<number of file>-<creation date (first GPRMC sentence. in file)>.dat`
After that the tool try to set the creation and change date of the file to the first date found in the nmea sentences. Based on this, all sentences are than added a correct timestamp. Than , if requested, `osml` will generate the report.

## Export

This command will first check all files on sd card (like check but without outputting the intermediate files) and will than generate track files for every track in the desired format.

Syntax

`osml export -s <sd card folder> -o <output folder> [-v] [-f <format>] [-n <name>]`

-d: folder with the files of the sd card
-o: output folder, where all processed files will be stored
-f: the output format, available formats: Defaults to NMEA, also available: GPX, KML, KMZ
-v: verbose will add more logging output.
-n: additional name used in gpx and km# formats for naming the track

### Processing

see check, after all sentences are collected, tracks are builded (based on the corrected timestamp) and every track is written to a file named `track_<tracknumber>.<format>`
